Update Working with Dependencies -> Learning the Basics Documentation (#29673)
gradle/gradle: platforms/documentation/docs/src/docs/userguide/dep-man/getting_started_dep_man.adoc

// Copyright (C) 2023 Gradle, Inc.
//
// Licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution-Noncommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International License.;
// you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
// You may obtain a copy of the License at
//
//      https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/
//
// Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
// distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
// WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
// See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
// limitations under the License.

[[dependency_management_in_gradle]]
= Dependency Management

> Software projects typically rely on libraries, internal modules and/or external modules to function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Software projects typically depend on other libraries to function. 
These libraries can either be sourced from other projects in the same build or from external repositories.
```

What is the distinction here between a library and a module? 

I think we should be careful with what we mean by "module" all throughout the documentation.

> Gradle's dependency management provides APIs to declare, resolve, use, and bundle functionality required by a project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Gradle's dependency management infrastructure provides APIs to declare, resolve, and expose binaries required by and provided by a project.
```

Understanding dependency management in Gradle is important for structuring projects into components.

> It is also important when you want to reuse existing libraries, or you need to upgrade those libraries while dealing with their versions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is also important when you want to reuse existing libraries, or you need to upgrade those libraries while managing their versions.
```

Let's look at a Java project where the code relies on link:https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/com.google.guava/guava[Guava] which is a suite of Google Core libraries for Java.
The build file of the project includes the following:

====
include::sample[dir="snippets/dependencyManagement/introductionDependencies/kotlin",files="build.gradle.kts[tags=dependency-intro]"]
include::sample[dir="snippets/dependencyManagement/introductionDependencies/groovy",files="build.gradle[tags=dependency-intro]"]
====

Within the `dependencies` block, there are three things to notice when a dependency is declared:

1. The configuration: `implementation` also known as the scope the dependency is applied to
2. The coordinates: `com.google.guava:guava` made up of a `group` and an artifact `name` which are uniquely identifiable
3. The version: `32.1.2-jre` which is only required for published dependencies

> Dependencies can be local or remote.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Dependencies can be local or external.
```

To let Gradle know where to find the dependencies declared, you can use the `repositories{}` block in the <<build_file_basics.adoc#build_file_basics,Build File>>.

Let's expand our example:

====
include::sample[dir="snippets/dependencyManagement/introductionDependencies/kotlin",files="build.gradle.kts[tags=dependency-repo]"]
include::sample[dir="snippets/dependencyManagement/introductionDependencies/groovy",files="build.gradle[tags=dependency-repo]"]
====

In this example, Gradle fetches the `guava` and `juneau-marshall` _dependencies_ from the link:https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/[Maven Central] and link:https://maven.google.com/[Google] _repositories_.

== 1. Declaring Dependencies

You can add code to your Java project from an external library such as `com.google.common.base` (a Guava package) which becomes a _dependency_. +

== 2. Understanding Configurations

> A build engineer can <<declaring_dependencies.adoc#declaring-dependencies,declare dependencies>> for different scopes. For example, you can declare dependencies that are only used at compile time.

Reviewer: Software developers do this too

Gradle calls the <<declaring_dependencies.adoc#sec:what-are-dependency-configurations,scope of a dependency>> a _configuration_.

== 3. Declaring Repositories

You can <<declaring_repositories.adoc#declaring-repositories,declare _repositories_>> to tell Gradle where to fetch local or remote _dependencies_. +

During a build, Gradle locates and downloads the dependencies, a process called <<dependency_resolution.adoc#sec:how-gradle-downloads-deps,_dependency resolution_>>.

== 4. Centralizing Dependencies

Centralizing dependencies in Gradle involves managing dependencies in a single location to ensure consistency and simplify dependency management across multiple projects.
Some concepts include:

> - A lockfile is a file that stores the exact versions of dependencies used in a project

Reviewer: Should talk about platforms here

Author: This is the old intro. I have updated it.

- A version catalog is a centralized list of dependency versions that can be referenced in multiple projects.
- A convention plugin defines conventions and configurations that can be applied consistently across projects.

> == 5. Dependency Constraints and Conflict Resolution

Reviewer: Why do we not link to the conflict resolution page?

And why does this talk about constraints when there is no basics page here that talks about constraints?

Author: This section is not done yet. It should be ready for review and out of draft tomorrow.

Author: Ready for review.

====

Within the `dependencies` block, there are three things to notice when a dependency is declared:

1. The configuration: `implementation` also known as the scope the dependency is applied to
2. The coordinates: `com.google.guava:guava` made up of a `group` and an artifact `name` which are uniquely identifiable
3. The version: `32.1.2-jre` which is only required for published dependencies

Dependencies can be local or external.
To let Gradle know where to find the dependencies declared, you can use the `repositories{}` block in the <<build_file_basics.adoc#build_file_basics,Build File>>.

Let's expand our example:

====
include::sample[dir="snippets/dependencyManagement/introductionDependencies/kotlin",files="build.gradle.kts[tags=dependency-repo]"]
include::sample[dir="snippets/dependencyManagement/introductionDependencies/groovy",files="build.gradle[tags=dependency-repo]"]
====

In this example, Gradle fetches the `guava` and `juneau-marshall` _dependencies_ from the link:https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/[Maven Central] and link:https://maven.google.com/[Google] _repositories_.

> == 1. Declaring Dependencies

Author: This list refers to the items that are in the menu:

                        ```
<li><a href="../userguide/declaring_dependencies.html">1. Declaring Dependencies</a></li>
                        <li><a href="../userguide/dependency_configurations.html">2. Dependency Configurations</a></li>
                        <li><a href="../userguide/declaring_repositories.html">3. Declaring Repositories</a></li>
                        <li><a href="../userguide/centralizing_dependencies.html">4. Centralizing Dependencies</a></li>
                        <li><a href="../userguide/dependency_constraints_conflicts.html">5. Dependency Constraints and Conflict Resolution</a></li>
```

You can add external libraries to your Java project such as `com.google.common.base`, a Guava package.
These libraries are <<declaring_dependencies.adoc#declaring-basic-dependencies, _dependencies_>> of your project.
They are added using the `dependencies{}` block in your build file.

== 2. Dependency Configurations

> You can <<declaring_dependencies.adoc#declaring-basic-dependencies,declare dependencies>> for different scopes. For example, you can declare dependencies that are only used at compile time.

Reviewer: I find it confusing that the first link in the `2.` section brings you to the `1.` section page.

Author: Removed.

== 3. Declaring Repositories

You can <<declaring_repositories.adoc#declaring-basic-repositories,declare _repositories_>> to tell Gradle where to fetch local or remote _dependencies_.

During a build, Gradle locates and downloads the dependencies, a process called <<dependency_resolution.adoc#sec:how-gradle-downloads-deps,_dependency resolution_>>.

== 4. Centralizing Dependencies

<<centralizing_dependencies.adoc#centralizing-dependencies, Centralizing dependencies>> in Gradle involves managing dependencies in a single location to ensure consistency and simplify dependency management across multiple projects.

This is typically done using platforms and version catalogs.
A platform is a set of modules intended to be used together.
A version catalog is a centralized list of dependency versions that can be referenced in multiple projects.

== 5. Dependency Constraints and Conflict Resolution

Metadata describes dependencies.
Some examples of metadata include:

* coordinates for finding the dependency in a repository
* information about the project that created the dependency
* the authors of the dependency

> * other dependencies required for a dependency to work properly, known as _transitive dependencies_

Author: That's my mistake, I forgot to update this section. Fixed in the latest commit.

> You can <<dependency_constraints.adoc#dependency-constraints,customize Gradle's handling of transitive dependencies>> based on the requirements of a project.

Author: That's a mistake, thanks for catching that. I meant to update this section. Fix in the latest commit.
